# Design Diary - Workout Tracker - 05/12/2020
### Final Project CS 232 - Python Programming
---

For this project, I wanted to use the Django framework to build a "social media" website for sharing workouts. The reason I wanted to use Django for this project rather than Flask is because I had already used Flask in a bunch of previous projects, and so I wanted to dive into something new. I feel like because I had a good understanding and a decent amount of practice using Flask, Django was a little easier to learn, and once I figured out how to set up a Django project, I found it fairly straightforward. To do this project, I started by just building out simple logged in and logged out views and added empty html pages for everything. Next, I moved on to designing how my database would look, as I knew I wanted basic social media functionality like CRUD for posts, liking, disliking, saving, and commenting. To create the database models, and I'm not sure that this was the best design, was to create seperate models for Workouts, Actions, SavedPosts, and Comments. I also made a Profile model that inherited from the Django User model that they provide for you (Pretty cool), so I could display a bio for user profiles. After I designed the databases, I worked on my views for feed, CRUD, and profile/profile updating, and added the finishing touches such as, actions (like/dislike) and saving posts. 

By far my biggest problem with this project was my organization of everything. Something that is really powerful about Django is the fact that you can create different folders that contain their own models, url handlers, templates, etc... What I did wrong was that I put too much into my users folder, rather than creating new folders to seperate out things like an users own profiles and other users profiles. This was bad because once I had more than ten templates, it was a pain to figure things out and keep track of everything. Another thing I did poorly, was using a class based view over a function view in certain cases. For example, I should have thought ahead of time that because I would be adding a comment section to my detail view, that it would be better to use a function view so that I could use a form better to save comments to their database table, while interacting with the workout table to get the right post. THis created a lot of tech debt for me, and at the time of writing this, I do not have the comment section figured out, as I cannot post the comment to the database and have it save. 

The most fun parts of the project were trying to make something that I could use (although its not really my proudest work at the moment), and diving headfirst into a new framework. 